More specifically, key factors that have been found to influence whether people
are healthy or unhealthy include the following: Education and literacy
Employment/working conditions Income and social status Physical environments
Social environments Social support networks Biology and genetics Culture Gender
Health care services Healthy child development Personal health practices and
coping skills Donald Henderson as part of the CDC's smallpox eradication team in
1966 An increasing number of studies and reports from different organizations
and contexts examine the linkages between health and different factors,
including lifestyles, environments, health care organization and health policy,
one specific health policy brought into many countries in recent years was the
introduction of the sugar tax. Environmental: all matters related to health
external to the human body and over which the individual has little or no
control; Lifestyle: the aggregation of personal decisions (i.e., over which the
individual has control) that can be said to contribute to, or cause, illness or
death; The maintenance and promotion of health is achieved through different
combination of physical, mental, and social well-being—a combination sometimes
referred to as the "health triangle." The WHO's 1986 Ottawa Charter for Health
Promotion further stated that health is not just a state, but also "a resource
for everyday life, not the objective of living.

Mental health Main article: Mental health The World Health Organization
describes mental health as "a state of well-being in which the individual
realizes his or her own abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life,
can work productively and fruitfully, and is able to make a contribution to his
or her community". In 2015, the National Sleep Foundation released updated
recommendations for sleep duration requirements based on age, and concluded that
"Individuals who habitually sleep outside the normal range may be exhibiting
signs or symptoms of serious health problems or, if done volitionally, may be
compromising their health and well-being." Age and condition Sleep needs
Newborns (0–3 months) 14 to 17 hours Infants (4–11 months) 12 to 15 hours
Toddlers (1–2 years) 11 to 14 hours Preschoolers (3–5 years) 10 to 13 hours
School-age children (6–13 years) 9 to 11 hours Teenagers (14–17 years) 8 to 10
hours Adults (18–64 years) 7 to 9 hours Older Adults (65 years and over) 7 to 8
hours Role of science Main articles: Health science and Health care Duration: 1
minute and 49 seconds.1:49 The Dutch Public Health Service provides medical care
for the natives of the Dutch East Indies, May 1946.

Applied health sciences endeavor to better understand and improve human health
through applications in areas such as health education, biomedical engineering,
biotechnology and public health.[citation needed] Organized interventions to
improve health based on the principles and procedures developed through the
health sciences are provided by practitioners trained in medicine, nursing,
nutrition, pharmacy, social work, psychology, occupational therapy, physical
therapy and other health care professions.